although food is available all year
round the urban monkeys life cycle is
still timed so that babies are born in
the season of Plenty while the baby
seeks her nipple its mother severs the
umbilical cord the baby's first visitor
is only a few weeks old herself vervets
are always fascinated by babies
most adult females have their own
influence to look after but they still
want to inspect everyone else's babies
often seem to get treated little better
than past the parcel but it's part of
monkey politics by showing interest in
another baby
a female can win favor with its mother
a verb it faces the same dilemma as any
other mother how much to mollycoddle her
infant or let it loose to make its own
mistakes but at least these rare open
patches of green like the golf course
and city parks provide a safe haven
where they can explore and romp imagine
this youngster trying to take its first
steps on a busy city street in a sense
all these mothers need is no more than
any parent would demand somewhere for
their youngsters to have the freedom to
you